website/pages/docs/getting-started/upgrade-guide.mdx, before:

---
section: Getting Started
title: Upgrade Guide
slug: /docs/upgrade-guide/
order: 4
---

# Upgrade Guide

Upgrading from xstyled v1.x to v2.0.

<carbon-ad />

xstyled v2 is the new major version since v1 of xstyled released in May 2019.

We know that xstyled is in the core of your project and that the migration could be difficult. For that purpose, we minimized the number of changes between the two versions, there is only few breaking changes.

## New philosophy

The v2 of xstyled favoured the usage of the `x` instead of the `styled` approach. Even if the `x` approach is always supported, it is better to use `x` as much as possible!

```js
import { x } from '@xstyled/...'

function Button() {
  return (
    <x.button
      type="button"
      color="white"
      transition
      bg="emerald-500"
      hoverBg="emerald-800"
    >
      Upgrade
    </x.button>
  )
}
```

Remember class Components and Hooks in React? It is the same thing for `x` and `styled`. There is no plan of deprecation, no need to convert all your code but it is better to use `x` if you can in future.

## Breaking changes

### Emotion v11

xstyled v2 works with Emotion v11, if you use xstyled v1 with Emotion, please read [the migrate guide from Emotion v10 to Emotion v11](https://emotion.sh/docs/migrating-to-emotion-10#incremental-migration) first.

### No more default `space`

xstyled v1 had default `space` built-in, in v2 `space` are now located in default theme and are slightly different from v1. Two options:

- **If you have customized `space` in your theme:**

Good news! You don't have to do anything, just keep your them in v2.

- **If you have not customized `space` in your theme:**

Use old `space` in your theme:

```js
const theme = {
  space: [0, 4, 8, 16, 24, 48, 96, 144, 192, 240],
}
```

- **If you were not using any theme:**

Read [customize theme documentation](/docs/theme/) to learn how to create a theme.

### `gridGap` becomes `gap`

To follow the [new specification](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/gap), `gridGap` becomes `gap`.

- **If you use `gridGap` in your project:**

Replace it by `gap`.

### No more `forwardedAs`

Everything is now simplified, you don't have to worry about `forwardedAs` any more, `as` works everywhere.

- **If you use `forwardedAs`:**

- Replace it by `as`.

### Utilities groups reorganization

xstyled v2 exposes lot of new utilities, to be more consistent, utilities groups have been completely changed.

- **If you use utility groups like `backgrounds`, `basics`, `borders`, `flexboxes`, `grids`, `layout`, `positioning`, `shadows`, `space`, `svg`, `typography` or `xgrids`:**

You have to pick new groups of utilities or single utilities. Read [how to create utilities](/docs/adding-new-utilities/) to learn more about it.

### Breakpoints

xstyled v2 now uses the same breakpoints as Tailwind, it was using Bootstrap's one but landscape have changed and those from Tailwind are actually more realistic. Also, breakpoints are now read from `screens` theme key.

- **If you use breakpoints and does not define them:**

Add xstyled v1 breakpoints:

```js
const theme = {
  screens: { xs: 0, sm: 576, md: 768, lg: 992, xl: 1200 },
}
```

- **If you already use your own breakpoints:**

Migrate them to `screens`:

```diffjs
  const theme = {
-   breakpoints: { xs: 0, md: 800 },
+   screens: { xs: 0, md: 800 },
  }
```

### No more `variant` utility

`variant` utility was confusing and not really helpful, xstyled v2 encourages to use the `x.*` syntax, so it is no longer required.

- **If you want use `variant` utility and you want to get it back:**

Add `variant` utility in your codebase:

```js
import { getThemeValue, merge, warn, is, assign } from '@xstyled/util'

const variant = ({
  key = null,
  default: defaultValue,
  variants = {},
  prop = 'variant',
}) => props => {
  const themeVariants = is(key) ? getThemeValue(props, key) : null
  const computedVariants = merge(assign({}, variants), themeVariants)
  const value = props[prop] !== undefined ? props[prop] : defaultValue
  const result = getThemeValue(props, value, computedVariants)
  warn(is(result), `variant "${value}" not found`)
  return result
}
```

Commit message:

docs(upgrade): mention width & height

website/pages/docs/getting-started/upgrade-guide.mdx, after:

---
section: Getting Started
title: Upgrade Guide
slug: /docs/upgrade-guide/
order: 4
---

# Upgrade Guide

Upgrading from xstyled v1.x to v2.0.

<carbon-ad />

xstyled v2 is the new major version since v1 of xstyled released in May 2019.

We know that xstyled is in the core of your project and that the migration could be difficult. For that purpose, we minimized the number of changes between the two versions, there is only few breaking changes.

## New philosophy

The v2 of xstyled favoured the usage of the `x` instead of the `styled` approach. Even if the `x` approach is always supported, it is better to use `x` as much as possible!

```js
import { x } from '@xstyled/...'

function Button() {
  return (
    <x.button
      type="button"
      color="white"
      transition
      bg="emerald-500"
      hoverBg="emerald-800"
    >
      Upgrade
    </x.button>
  )
}
```

Remember class Components and Hooks in React? It is the same thing for `x` and `styled`. There is no plan of deprecation, no need to convert all your code but it is better to use `x` if you can in future.

## Breaking changes

### Emotion v11

xstyled v2 works with Emotion v11, if you use xstyled v1 with Emotion, please read [the migrate guide from Emotion v10 to Emotion v11](https://emotion.sh/docs/migrating-to-emotion-10#incremental-migration) first.

### No more default `space`

xstyled v1 had default `space` built-in, in v2 `space` are now located in default theme and are slightly different from v1. Two options:

- **If you have customized `space` in your theme:**

Good news! You don't have to do anything, just keep your them in v2.

- **If you have not customized `space` in your theme:**

Use old `space` in your theme:

```js
const theme = {
  space: [0, 4, 8, 16, 24, 48, 96, 144, 192, 240],
}
```

- **If you were not using any theme:**

Read [customize theme documentation](/docs/theme/) to learn how to create a theme.

### `gridGap` becomes `gap`

To follow the [new specification](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/gap), `gridGap` becomes `gap`.

- **If you use `gridGap` in your project:**

Replace it by `gap`.

### `width` becomes `w`, `height` becomes `h`

To reduce conflict between image attributes `width` and `height`, only `w` and `h` are now usable to define CSS properties `width` and `height`.

- **If you use `width` or `height` in your project:**

Replace it by `w` and `h`.

### No more `forwardedAs`

Everything is now simplified, you don't have to worry about `forwardedAs` any more, `as` works everywhere.

- **If you use `forwardedAs`:**

- Replace it by `as`.

### Utilities groups reorganization

xstyled v2 exposes lot of new utilities, to be more consistent, utilities groups have been completely changed.

- **If you use utility groups like `backgrounds`, `basics`, `borders`, `flexboxes`, `grids`, `layout`, `positioning`, `shadows`, `space`, `svg`, `typography` or `xgrids`:**

You have to pick new groups of utilities or single utilities. Read [how to create utilities](/docs/adding-new-utilities/) to learn more about it.

### Breakpoints

xstyled v2 now uses the same breakpoints as Tailwind, it was using Bootstrap's one but landscape have changed and those from Tailwind are actually more realistic. Also, breakpoints are now read from `screens` theme key.

- **If you use breakpoints and does not define them:**

Add xstyled v1 breakpoints:

```js
const theme = {
  screens: { xs: 0, sm: 576, md: 768, lg: 992, xl: 1200 },
}
```

- **If you already use your own breakpoints:**

Migrate them to `screens`:

```diffjs
  const theme = {
-   breakpoints: { xs: 0, md: 800 },
+   screens: { xs: 0, md: 800 },
  }
```

### No more `variant` utility

`variant` utility was confusing and not really helpful, xstyled v2 encourages to use the `x.*` syntax, so it is no longer required.

- **If you want use `variant` utility and you want to get it back:**

Add `variant` utility in your codebase:

```js
import { getThemeValue, merge, warn, is, assign } from '@xstyled/util'

const variant = ({
  key = null,
  default: defaultValue,
  variants = {},
  prop = 'variant',
}) => props => {
  const themeVariants = is(key) ? getThemeValue(props, key) : null
  const computedVariants = merge(assign({}, variants), themeVariants)
  const value = props[prop] !== undefined ? props[prop] : defaultValue
  const result = getThemeValue(props, value, computedVariants)
  warn(is(result), `variant "${value}" not found`)
  return result
}
```
