website/pages/docs/typography/text.mdx, before:

---
section: Typography
title: Text
slug: /docs/text/
---

# Text

Utilities for controlling the all typography of an element.

<carbon-ad />

| React props   | CSS Properties |
| ------------- | -------------- |
| `text={size}` | Mixed          |

## Usage

Text is similar to [`fontSize`](/docs/font-size/), except it also specify according [`lineHeight`](/docs/line-height/).

By extending theme, `text` can be used to define all text variants of your application.

```jsx preview color=violet
<>
  <template preview>
    <>
      {[
        'xs',
        'sm',
        'base',
        'lg',
        'xl',
        '2xl',
        '3xl',
        '4xl',
        '5xl',
        '6xl',
        '7xl',
        '8xl',
        '9xl',
      ].map((size) => (
        <x.dl
          key={size}
          display="flex"
          alignItems="baseline"
          color="violet-600"
          overflow="hidden"
        >
          <x.dt w={16} flexShrink={0} text="sm" opacity={0.8} fontFamily="mono">
            {size}
          </x.dt>
          <x.dd text={size} fontWeight="medium">
            Computers have lots of memory but no imagination.
          </x.dd>
        </x.dl>
      ))}
    </>
  </template>
  <x.p text="xs">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="sm">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="base">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="lg">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="xl">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="2xl">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="3xl">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="4xl">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="5xl">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="6xl">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="7xl">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="8xl">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="9xl">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
</>
```

## Responsive

To control the space between elements at a specific breakpoint, use responsive object notation. For example, adding the property `text={{ md: "xl" }}` to an element would apply the `text="xl"` utility at medium screen sizes and above.

```jsx
<x.p text={{ xs: 'sm', md: 'xl' }}>{/* ... */}</x.p>
```

For more information about xstyled's responsive design features, check out [Responsive Design](/docs/responsive-design/) documentation.

## Customizing

### Texts

If you'd like to customize your values for texts, use the `theme.texts` section of your theme. Every typography utilities are authorized, not only `fontSize` and `lineHeight`. You can literally define all your texts style using this utility.

```diffjs
  // theme.js
  export const theme = {
    texts: {
      title: {
        fontSize: '30px',
        lineHeight: '45px',
        fontWeight: 'bold'
      },
      hint: {
        fontSize: 10,
        lineHeight: 1.4,
        color: 'gray-300',
      }
    },
  }
```

If you don't want to customize it, a set of `fontSizes` is already defined in default theme:

```js
const defaultTheme = {
  // ...
  fontSizes: {
    xs: { fontSize: 'xs', lineHeight: 'xs' },
    sm: { fontSize: 'sm', lineHeight: 'sm' },
    default: { fontSize: 'default', lineHeight: 'default' },
    lg: { fontSize: 'lg', lineHeight: 'lg' },
    xl: { fontSize: 'xl', lineHeight: 'xl' },
    '2xl': { fontSize: '2xl', lineHeight: '2xl' },
    '3xl': { fontSize: '3xl', lineHeight: '3xl' },
    '4xl': { fontSize: '4xl', lineHeight: '4xl' },
    '5xl': { fontSize: '5xl', lineHeight: '5xl' },
    '6xl': { fontSize: '6xl', lineHeight: '6xl' },
    '7xl': { fontSize: '7xl', lineHeight: '7xl' },
    '8xl': { fontSize: '8xl', lineHeight: '8xl' },
    '9xl': { fontSize: '9xl', lineHeight: '9xl' },
  },
}
```

Values are defined in `fontSizes` and `lineHeights` theme section. It means if you modify a `fontSize` it will automatically reflects change on `text` and `fontSize` utility.

Commit message:

feat: add ability to customize spacing properties in "texts" (#351)
Fixes #350

website/pages/docs/typography/text.mdx, after:

---
section: Typography
title: Text
slug: /docs/text/
---

# Text

Utilities for controlling the all typography of an element.

<carbon-ad />

| React props   | CSS Properties |
| ------------- | -------------- |
| `text={size}` | Mixed          |

## Usage

Text is similar to [`fontSize`](/docs/font-size/), except it also specify according [`lineHeight`](/docs/line-height/).

By extending theme, `text` can be used to define all text variants of your application.

```jsx preview color=violet
<>
  <template preview>
    <>
      {[
        'xs',
        'sm',
        'base',
        'lg',
        'xl',
        '2xl',
        '3xl',
        '4xl',
        '5xl',
        '6xl',
        '7xl',
        '8xl',
        '9xl',
      ].map((size) => (
        <x.dl
          key={size}
          display="flex"
          alignItems="baseline"
          color="violet-600"
          overflow="hidden"
        >
          <x.dt w={16} flexShrink={0} text="sm" opacity={0.8} fontFamily="mono">
            {size}
          </x.dt>
          <x.dd text={size} fontWeight="medium">
            Computers have lots of memory but no imagination.
          </x.dd>
        </x.dl>
      ))}
    </>
  </template>
  <x.p text="xs">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="sm">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="base">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="lg">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="xl">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="2xl">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="3xl">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="4xl">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="5xl">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="6xl">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="7xl">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="8xl">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
  <x.p text="9xl">Computers have lots ...</x.p>
</>
```

## Responsive

To control the space between elements at a specific breakpoint, use responsive object notation. For example, adding the property `text={{ md: "xl" }}` to an element would apply the `text="xl"` utility at medium screen sizes and above.

```jsx
<x.p text={{ xs: 'sm', md: 'xl' }}>{/* ... */}</x.p>
```

For more information about xstyled's responsive design features, check out [Responsive Design](/docs/responsive-design/) documentation.

## Customizing

### Texts

If you'd like to customize your values for texts, use the `theme.texts` section of your theme. All typography utilities are authorized, not only `fontSize` and `lineHeight`. You can literally define all your texts style using this utility, including spacing properties like `marginBottom`.

```diffjs
  // theme.js
  export const theme = {
    texts: {
      title: {
        fontSize: '30px',
        lineHeight: '45px',
        fontWeight: 'bold'
      },
      hint: {
        fontSize: 10,
        lineHeight: 1.4,
        color: 'gray-300',
      }
    },
  }
```

If you don't want to customize it, a set of `fontSizes` is already defined in default theme:

```js
const defaultTheme = {
  // ...
  fontSizes: {
    xs: { fontSize: 'xs', lineHeight: 'xs' },
    sm: { fontSize: 'sm', lineHeight: 'sm' },
    default: { fontSize: 'default', lineHeight: 'default' },
    lg: { fontSize: 'lg', lineHeight: 'lg' },
    xl: { fontSize: 'xl', lineHeight: 'xl' },
    '2xl': { fontSize: '2xl', lineHeight: '2xl' },
    '3xl': { fontSize: '3xl', lineHeight: '3xl' },
    '4xl': { fontSize: '4xl', lineHeight: '4xl' },
    '5xl': { fontSize: '5xl', lineHeight: '5xl' },
    '6xl': { fontSize: '6xl', lineHeight: '6xl' },
    '7xl': { fontSize: '7xl', lineHeight: '7xl' },
    '8xl': { fontSize: '8xl', lineHeight: '8xl' },
    '9xl': { fontSize: '9xl', lineHeight: '9xl' },
  },
}
```

Values are defined in `fontSizes` and `lineHeights` theme section. It means if you modify a `fontSize` it will automatically reflects change on `text` and `fontSize` utility.
