website/pages/docs/core-concepts/magic-styled-components.mdx, before:

---
section: Core Concepts
title: Magic Styled Components
slug: /docs/magic-styled-components/
order: 2
---

# Magic Styled Components

Reduce the boilerplate of your Styled Components.

<carbon-ad />

## Automatic Theming

xstyled's exposes a `styled` utilities similar to the one you have in styled-components or Emotion with a small addition, the Automatic Theming.

Automatic Theming allows you to specify theme value as CSS value.

```js
import styled from '@xstyled/...'

const Button = styled.button`
  border-radius: md;
  font-weight: semibold;
  transition: default;
  background-color: emerald-500;
  color: #fff;

  @media (min-width: md) {
    font-size: lg;
  }
`
```

Here's how the example above works:

- `md` is replaced by `theme.radii.md`
- `semibold` is replaced by `theme.fontWeights.semibold`
- `default` is replaced by `theme.transitions.default`
- `emerald-500` is replaced by `theme.colors['emerald-500']`
- `#fff` is replaced by `theme.colors['#fff']`, that is not defined, so it uses `#fff` as value
- `@media (min-width: md)` is replaced by `@media (min-width: ${theme.screens.lg})`
- `lg` is replaced by `theme.fontSizes.lg`

## Use another component

The `as` prop let you replace the component originally defined:

```js
import styled from '@xstyled/...'

const Button = styled.button`
  border-radius: md;
  font-weight: semibold;
  transition: default;
  background-color: emerald-500;
  color: #fff;

  @media (min-width: md) {
    font-size: lg;
  }
`

function App() {
  return (
    <Button as="a" href="https://smooth-doc.com">
      Smooth DOC
    </Button>
  )
}
```

## Use theme getters

Automatic Theming is nice but sometime you need to read a value directly. For composing properties like `box-shadow` that contains colors and dimensions.

For that purpose, xstyled exports a `th` utility that let you get values from theme.

### Get specific value

`th` exposes all utilities to directly get the type of property you need:

```js
import { th } from '@xstyled/...'

const Container = styled.div`
  box-shadow: 0 0 3px ${th.color('primary', '#000')};
`
```

The example above reads `theme.colors.primary` and use `#000` as default value if not defined.

### Get arbitrary value

```js
import { th } from '@xstyled/...'

const Container = styled.div`
  box-shadow: 0 0 3px ${th('primaryColor', '#000')};
`
```

## Mapping

All available theme getters are automatically bound to a theme section and to CSS properties.

| Getter                  | Theme key              | Automatic CSS Properties                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `th.animation`          | `animations`           | `animation`                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `th.border`             | `borders`              | `border`, `border-top`, `border-right`, `border-bottom`, `border-left`                                                                                                                                    |
| `th.borderStyle`        | `borderStyles`         | `border-style`, `border-top-style`, `border-right-style`, `border-bottom-style`, `border-left-style`, `outline-style`                                                                                     |
| `th.borderWidth`        | `borderWidths`         | `border-width`, `border-top-width`, `border-right-width`, `border-bottom-width`, `border-left-width`, `outline-width`                                                                                     |
| `th.color`              | `colors`               | `color`, `background-color`, `border-color`, `border-top-color`, `border-right-color`, `border-bottom-color`, `border-left-color`, `outline-color`, `fill`, `stroke`                                      |
| `th.duration`           | `durations`            | `transition-duration`, `animation-duration`                                                                                                                                                               |
| `th.font`               | `fonts`                | `font-family`                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `th.fontSize`           | `fontSizes`            | `font-size`                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `th.fontWeight`         | `fontWeights`          | `font-weight`                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `th.inset`              | `inset`                | `top`, `right`, `bottom`, `left`                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `th.letterSpacing`      | `letterSpacings`       | `letter-spacing`                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `th.lineHeight`         | `lineHeights`          | `line-height`                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `th.radius`             | `radii`                | `border-radius`, `border-top-left-radius`, `border-top-right-radius`, `border-bottom-right-radius`, `border-bottom-left-radius`                                                                           |
| `th.shadow`             | `shadows`              | `box-shadow`, `text-shadow`                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `th.size`               | `sizes`                | `width`, `height`, `max-width`, `max-height`, `min-width`, `min-height`                                                                                                                                   |
| `th.space`              | `space`                | `margin`, `margin-top`, `margin-bottom`, `margin-left`, `margin-right`, `padding`, `padding-top`, `padding-bottom`, `padding-left`, `padding-right`, `gap`, `grid-gap`, `grid-row-gap`, `grid-column-gap` |
| `th.timingFunctions`    | `timingFunctions`      | `animation-timing-function`, `transition-timing-function`                                                                                                                                                 |
| `th.transform`          | `transforms`           | `transform`                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `th.transition`         | `transitions`          | `transition`                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `th.transitionProperty` | `transitionProperties` | `transition-property`                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `th.zIndex`             | `zIndices`             | `z-index`                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

## Add utility props to styled components

Sometimes it is convenient to mix styled components and utility props. It is possible to do it by adding a `Box` suffix to `styled.tag`. Using `styled.buttonBox` instead of `styled.button` let you use any props utilities on the component:

```js
import styled from '@xstyled/...'

const Button = styled.buttonBox`
  border-radius: md;
  font-weight: semibold;
  transition: default;
  background-color: emerald-500;
  color: #fff;
`

function App() {
  return <Button bg="red-500">Danger</Button>
}
```

It is possible to explicitly add utility props by using `system` or any utility as interpolation:

```js
import { system, typography } from '@xstyled/styled-components'
import styled from 'styled-components'

const Button = styled.div`
  ${system}
`

const Paragraph = styled.p`
  ${typography}
`

function App() {
  return (
    <>
      <Button bg="red-500">Danger</Button>
      <Paragraph fontSize="sm">Hello world!</Paragraph>
    </>
  )
}
```

## Use utility props to apply style in styled components

Some utilities like `ring` can't be used in styled components. The `apply` method available on each utility or utilities family allows you to apply style directly on your styled components:

```js
import styled, { system } from '@xstyled/...'

const Button = styled.buttonBox`
  border-radius: md;
  font-weight: semibold;
  transition: default;
  background-color: emerald-500;
  color: #fff;

  &:focus {
    ${system.apply({ ring: 2, ringColor: 'emerald-800' })}
  }
`

function App() {
  return <Button bg="red-500">Danger</Button>
}
```

## Responsive utilities

**Media queries are automatically transformed by xstyled, these utilities are deprecated and will be removed in next major version. Please use `@media` instead.**

### breakpoints

`breakpoints` lets you write style for each breakpoint.

```js
import { breakpoints } from '@xstyled/...'

const Container = styled.div`
  ${breakpoints({
    xs: css`
      /* All devices */
    `,
    md: css`
      /* From md breakpoint */
    `,
    lg: css`
      /* From lg breakpoint */
    `,
  })}
`
```

### up

`up` lets you apply style from a breakpoint.

```js
import styled, { css, up } from '@xstyled/...'

const Box = styled.div`
  width: 200px;
  height: 200px;
  ${up(
    'md',
    css`
      height: 300px;
    `,
  )}
`
```

### down

`down` lets you apply style up to a breakpoint.

```js
import styled, { css, down } from '@xstyled/...'

const Box = styled.div`
  width: 200px;
  height: 200px;
  ${down(
    'md',
    css`
      height: 100px;
    `,
  )}
`
```

### between

`between` lets you apply style between two breakpoints.

```js
import styled, { css, between } from '@xstyled/...'

const Box = styled.div`
  width: 200px;
  height: 200px;
  ${between(
    'md',
    'lg',
    css`
      height: 300px;
    `,
  )}
`
```

## Styled Components Rules

For the magic to work, you must follow rules. If you don't follow them, automatic theme getter could not work as expected.

### Only strings are transformed

CSS as object already does magic on your properties, for example a `margin` is automatically converted in `px`. To avoid any problem of migration, xstyled magic only applies on string properties.

```js
import styled from '@xstyled/...'

const Box = styled.div({
  margin: 2, // '2px' (not transformed by xstyled)
  marginTop: '2', // '8px' (transformed by styled)
})
```

### `css` utility is required

With xstyled, you need to explicitly transforms your CSS using `css` utility:

**🚫 Not supported**

```js
import styled, { css } from '@xstyled/...'

const Box = styled.div`
  ${(p) => ({ margin: p.margin })}
`
```

**✅ Supported**

```js
import styled, { css } from '@xstyled/...'

const Box = styled.div`
  ${(p) => css({ margin: p.margin })}
`
```

### Don't use interpolation in the middle of a declaration

xstyled analyze strings generated from `css` or `styled` and detects `prop: value;` pattern. Adding interpolation in the middle of a declaration is not supported.

**🚫 Not supported**

```js
import styled from '@xstyled/...'

const Box = styled.div`
  margin: ${(p) => p.margin};
`
```

If you need to access props, then returns a `css` expression that includes `prop: value;` pattern.

**✅ Supported**

```js
const Box = styled.div`
  ${(p) => css`
    margin: ${p.margin};
  `}
`
```

Commit message:

docs: add styled rules description supplement (#405)
* docs: fix missing xstyled

* docs: add styled rules description supplement

website/pages/docs/core-concepts/magic-styled-components.mdx, after:

---
section: Core Concepts
title: Magic Styled Components
slug: /docs/magic-styled-components/
order: 2
---

# Magic Styled Components

Reduce the boilerplate of your Styled Components.

<carbon-ad />

## Automatic Theming

xstyled's exposes a `styled` utilities similar to the one you have in styled-components or Emotion with a small addition, the Automatic Theming.

Automatic Theming allows you to specify theme value as CSS value.

```js
import styled from '@xstyled/...'

const Button = styled.button`
  border-radius: md;
  font-weight: semibold;
  transition: default;
  background-color: emerald-500;
  color: #fff;

  @media (min-width: md) {
    font-size: lg;
  }
`
```

Here's how the example above works:

- `md` is replaced by `theme.radii.md`
- `semibold` is replaced by `theme.fontWeights.semibold`
- `default` is replaced by `theme.transitions.default`
- `emerald-500` is replaced by `theme.colors['emerald-500']`
- `#fff` is replaced by `theme.colors['#fff']`, that is not defined, so it uses `#fff` as value
- `@media (min-width: md)` is replaced by `@media (min-width: ${theme.screens.lg})`
- `lg` is replaced by `theme.fontSizes.lg`

## Use another component

The `as` prop let you replace the component originally defined:

```js
import styled from '@xstyled/...'

const Button = styled.button`
  border-radius: md;
  font-weight: semibold;
  transition: default;
  background-color: emerald-500;
  color: #fff;

  @media (min-width: md) {
    font-size: lg;
  }
`

function App() {
  return (
    <Button as="a" href="https://smooth-doc.com">
      Smooth DOC
    </Button>
  )
}
```

## Use theme getters

Automatic Theming is nice but sometime you need to read a value directly. For composing properties like `box-shadow` that contains colors and dimensions.

For that purpose, xstyled exports a `th` utility that let you get values from theme.

### Get specific value

`th` exposes all utilities to directly get the type of property you need:

```js
import { th } from '@xstyled/...'

const Container = styled.div`
  box-shadow: 0 0 3px ${th.color('primary', '#000')};
`
```

The example above reads `theme.colors.primary` and use `#000` as default value if not defined.

### Get arbitrary value

```js
import { th } from '@xstyled/...'

const Container = styled.div`
  box-shadow: 0 0 3px ${th('primaryColor', '#000')};
`
```

## Mapping

All available theme getters are automatically bound to a theme section and to CSS properties.

| Getter                  | Theme key              | Automatic CSS Properties                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `th.animation`          | `animations`           | `animation`                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `th.border`             | `borders`              | `border`, `border-top`, `border-right`, `border-bottom`, `border-left`                                                                                                                                    |
| `th.borderStyle`        | `borderStyles`         | `border-style`, `border-top-style`, `border-right-style`, `border-bottom-style`, `border-left-style`, `outline-style`                                                                                     |
| `th.borderWidth`        | `borderWidths`         | `border-width`, `border-top-width`, `border-right-width`, `border-bottom-width`, `border-left-width`, `outline-width`                                                                                     |
| `th.color`              | `colors`               | `color`, `background-color`, `border-color`, `border-top-color`, `border-right-color`, `border-bottom-color`, `border-left-color`, `outline-color`, `fill`, `stroke`                                      |
| `th.duration`           | `durations`            | `transition-duration`, `animation-duration`                                                                                                                                                               |
| `th.font`               | `fonts`                | `font-family`                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `th.fontSize`           | `fontSizes`            | `font-size`                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `th.fontWeight`         | `fontWeights`          | `font-weight`                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `th.inset`              | `inset`                | `top`, `right`, `bottom`, `left`                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `th.letterSpacing`      | `letterSpacings`       | `letter-spacing`                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `th.lineHeight`         | `lineHeights`          | `line-height`                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `th.radius`             | `radii`                | `border-radius`, `border-top-left-radius`, `border-top-right-radius`, `border-bottom-right-radius`, `border-bottom-left-radius`                                                                           |
| `th.shadow`             | `shadows`              | `box-shadow`, `text-shadow`                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `th.size`               | `sizes`                | `width`, `height`, `max-width`, `max-height`, `min-width`, `min-height`                                                                                                                                   |
| `th.space`              | `space`                | `margin`, `margin-top`, `margin-bottom`, `margin-left`, `margin-right`, `padding`, `padding-top`, `padding-bottom`, `padding-left`, `padding-right`, `gap`, `grid-gap`, `grid-row-gap`, `grid-column-gap` |
| `th.timingFunctions`    | `timingFunctions`      | `animation-timing-function`, `transition-timing-function`                                                                                                                                                 |
| `th.transform`          | `transforms`           | `transform`                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `th.transition`         | `transitions`          | `transition`                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `th.transitionProperty` | `transitionProperties` | `transition-property`                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `th.zIndex`             | `zIndices`             | `z-index`                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

## Add utility props to styled components

Sometimes it is convenient to mix styled components and utility props. It is possible to do it by adding a `Box` suffix to `styled.tag`. Using `styled.buttonBox` instead of `styled.button` let you use any props utilities on the component:

```js
import styled from '@xstyled/...'

const Button = styled.buttonBox`
  border-radius: md;
  font-weight: semibold;
  transition: default;
  background-color: emerald-500;
  color: #fff;
`

function App() {
  return <Button bg="red-500">Danger</Button>
}
```

It is possible to explicitly add utility props by using `system` or any utility as interpolation:

```js
import { system, typography } from '@xstyled/styled-components'
import styled from 'styled-components'

const Button = styled.div`
  ${system}
`

const Paragraph = styled.p`
  ${typography}
`

function App() {
  return (
    <>
      <Button bg="red-500">Danger</Button>
      <Paragraph fontSize="sm">Hello world!</Paragraph>
    </>
  )
}
```

## Use utility props to apply style in styled components

Some utilities like `ring` can't be used in styled components. The `apply` method available on each utility or utilities family allows you to apply style directly on your styled components:

```js
import styled, { system } from '@xstyled/...'

const Button = styled.buttonBox`
  border-radius: md;
  font-weight: semibold;
  transition: default;
  background-color: emerald-500;
  color: #fff;

  &:focus {
    ${system.apply({ ring: 2, ringColor: 'emerald-800' })}
  }
`

function App() {
  return <Button bg="red-500">Danger</Button>
}
```

## Responsive utilities

**Media queries are automatically transformed by xstyled, these utilities are deprecated and will be removed in next major version. Please use `@media` instead.**

### breakpoints

`breakpoints` lets you write style for each breakpoint.

```js
import { breakpoints } from '@xstyled/...'

const Container = styled.div`
  ${breakpoints({
    xs: css`
      /* All devices */
    `,
    md: css`
      /* From md breakpoint */
    `,
    lg: css`
      /* From lg breakpoint */
    `,
  })}
`
```

### up

`up` lets you apply style from a breakpoint.

```js
import styled, { css, up } from '@xstyled/...'

const Box = styled.div`
  width: 200px;
  height: 200px;
  ${up(
    'md',
    css`
      height: 300px;
    `,
  )}
`
```

### down

`down` lets you apply style up to a breakpoint.

```js
import styled, { css, down } from '@xstyled/...'

const Box = styled.div`
  width: 200px;
  height: 200px;
  ${down(
    'md',
    css`
      height: 100px;
    `,
  )}
`
```

### between

`between` lets you apply style between two breakpoints.

```js
import styled, { css, between } from '@xstyled/...'

const Box = styled.div`
  width: 200px;
  height: 200px;
  ${between(
    'md',
    'lg',
    css`
      height: 300px;
    `,
  )}
`
```

## Styled Components Rules

For the magic to work, you must follow rules. If you don't follow them, automatic theme getter could not work as expected.

### Only strings are transformed

CSS as object already does magic on your properties, for example a `margin` is automatically converted in `px`. To avoid any problem of migration, xstyled magic only applies on string properties.

```js
import styled from '@xstyled/...'

const Box = styled.div({
  margin: 2, // '2px' (not transformed by xstyled)
  marginTop: '2', // '8px' (transformed by xstyled to your defined theme spacing scale)
})
```

### `css` utility is required

With xstyled, you need to explicitly transforms your CSS using `css` utility:

**🚫 Not supported**

```js
import styled, { css } from '@xstyled/...'

const Box = styled.div`
  ${(p) => ({ margin: p.margin })}
`
```

**✅ Supported**

```js
import styled, { css } from '@xstyled/...'

const Box = styled.div`
  ${(p) => css({ margin: p.margin })}
`
```

### Don't use interpolation in the middle of a declaration

xstyled analyze strings generated from `css` or `styled` and detects `prop: value;` pattern. Adding interpolation in the middle of a declaration is not supported.

**🚫 Not supported**

```js
import styled from '@xstyled/...'

const Box = styled.div`
  margin: ${(p) => p.margin};
`
```

If you need to access props, then returns a `css` expression that includes `prop: value;` pattern.

**✅ Supported**

```js
const Box = styled.div`
  ${(p) => css`
    margin: ${p.margin};
  `}
`
```
